From hanselminutes.com. It's Hansel minutes,
a weekly discussion with web
developer and technologist Scott Hanselman.
This is Lawrence Ryan announcing show
number two 94. Recorded live
Monday, November 21st, 2011. Support for Hansel
minutes is provided by Telerik
rad controls, the most comprehensive
suite of components for windows
forms and asp.net web applications
online@wwwdottelerik.com. In this episode, Scott
talks with Matt Florence and
Amir Rajon about understanding BDD
and end spec. Hi, this
is Scott Hanselman and this
is another episode of Hansel
minutes. And today we've got
Matt Florence and Amir Rajon
from improving enterprises in Dallas,
Texas. These are the, the
inspect guys. You are the
inspect guys, spec.org. How's it
going, gentlemen? Not too bad,
not too bad. So, and
spec.org says BDD style unit
testing in.net. And it doesn't
tell me what BDD is.
I have to click on
a link and it tells
me that BDD is behavior
driven development. Matt, why do
I care about BDD Behavior
driven is sort of an
evolution of test driven development
where testing and development focused
more well, the implementation of
the test was closely tied
to the, to the implementation
code, your classes and your
methods, behavior driven, kind of
takes a step back from
that and tries to approach
the problem of expressing specifications
in a more meaningful way.
And whose behavior do I
care about? Is it a
person's behavior or is it
a soft piece of software's
behavior or is it the
system's behavior? Yeah, I mean,
it definitely depends at different
levels in your application. You
can write integration tests and
that's that answer would change,
but something that perhaps a
business person or, or user
would actually make some sense
of, you know, is this
really about writing a valuable
test? When I, when I've
done unit tests in the
past, I found that I
was too concerned with just
trying to get everything isolated,
as opposed to solving, solving
the real problem, which is
working software. So just taking
that little spin and saying
that behavior driven development is
just not writing a valuable
test. It's about testing how
the, what the software is
doing as opposed to how
it's doing it is probably
the differentiating factor for me.
That's a really interesting thing.
So a lot of people
have tried to explain this
to me, and I've seen
lots of different articles and
papers that are more academic
and blogs that are more
kind of populist everyone trying
to explain BDD, but you're
saying it's about writing a
valuable test. So if I
just go and get in
unit and start writing tests
and doing test driven development,
kind of classic TDD, why
does that have less value
than a behavior driven tests?
Amir? So I guess the
best way I like to
explain it is that I
don't think of at least
right now, I don't think
of tests anymore as unit
or integration tests. I just
think of them as coarse
grain or fine grain tests.
And what I've found is
that having that, getting rid
of that delineation makes it
easier to write specifications like
that. And we actually write
inside of the InSpec test
suite, we have contact back
or BDD BDD style tests
written in any unit. And
they're just really around just
getting the behavior down and
not really concentrating on how
the inner intricacies or the
inner workings of some component
behaves. This is just about,
this is about what the
system does as a whole.
That's interesting. I've usually thought
about things in terms of
integration, testing, unit testing, customer
acceptance testing, and you're saying
fine grain and coarse grain.
Do you mean like testing
little stuff or testing larger
how the system fits together
type stuff? Yeah. I mean
a pretty much it's it's
about, let's take a validation.
Maybe, maybe I do a
lot of testing with the
asp.net NBC. So maybe it's
better to test the controller
act and all the way
to the database end to
end, because that tells a
better story than testing just
a validator and I'll to
that does I'll choose the
core screen test over a,
an isolated that's around maybe
user validation or registration, because
it builds a better story,
Even though there's a lot
more set up to be
done on a test like
that. Yeah. And maybe Matt
can elaborate on that. I
was going to change gears
a little bit. There would
definitely be more set up
in that scenario, but I
want to go back to
something Amir said about what
versus how I think most
of your listeners, most of
the.net world, you know, works
every day in imperative paradigm.
And so the, how is
so much more in our
face and in front of
us instead of the what.
And so I think that's
one thing that a behavior
driven approach makes you think
more about. In other words,
one of the ideas is,
is your specifications that are
expressed in sentences. And so
just taking that step back
and declaring what your software
should do, I think is
a very valuable step. Okay.
So, so that's, that's interesting.
So you, you, you pulled
us back to this idea
of what the goal is,
as opposed to the little
internal details of, you know,
how I sorted this array.
So some unit tests might
be checking that some array
is sorted correctly, or that
I'm doing some small detail
oriented bit of code correctly,
but you're thinking that the
larger why and why is
this being done? And how
does this move? The business
fold for forward is how
I should be thinking about
my specifications. I think it's
a very helpful way to
pass on intent to the
future software developers that are
going to be maintaining your
system. A good example is
most recent blog entries should
be on top, and you
can do that in a,
in an in unit style.
And as Amir mentioned, our
test suite for InSpec is
written in unit and does
a lot of that. But
I wanted to come back
to that, that declarative and
the what versus the how,
and just give an example,
you know, the most recent
blogs should be on top.
And as far as the
set up, when you were
talking about, it'd be more
set up, sometimes the field
that set up as necessary.
If, if I isolated everything
to where I'm only testing,
maybe the controller, I'm only
testing a validator and, and
I'm not doing this in
10 and 10 tests. What
I'll find is that I've
done these fine, or these
units unit tests that are
isolated. But when I start
up the app and work
on maybe the front end,
I find that really I
haven't done anything. I haven't
actually set up my database.
I haven't created any schemes.
So that's what I, that's
what I use my test
for us to draw is
to force the creation of
the schema or forced the
creation of something. And having
testing things in isolation may
not force force that force,
that database to be created
or forced that table to
be created. So sometimes that's
set up as necessary. And
then what I find is
that maybe after, after I've
done a lot of the
upfront course grain tests, there
might be some intricacies that
I want to isolate. And
at that point, I'll go
with a more fine grain
test and it'll be more
of a unit unit test,
as opposed to the end
to end. How often do
you build tests of tests?
Like if you describe putting
together a larger system and
testing something like, like he
just said, the latest blog
posts should be at the
top, all of the setup
and all the things underneath
that that might need to
test it as well. Do
you make, do test drive
other tests and kind of
nest, or should they all
be peers of each other
and have, have a lot
of repetition, but more isolation?
So that's really interesting. That's
one thing that I think
inspect really excels at. And
so the first part of
it is, yes, you'll find
that when you write some
tests, it will drive out,
drive out more tests to
be written. And it's the,
the idea is always to
go with the naive implementation,
get the simplest thing in
place to get the application
working. And what you'll find
is that do the simplest
thing and as developers, we
naturally maybe do Knoll checks
or any many different things.
Like if we're working with
the dictionary, we'll make sure
that the key doesn't exist
before we entered, entered. The
key, those kinds of things
will, will get flushed out
by the TA by the
naive implementations that you right.
So it may be more
to say that when we
write our contexts backwards specifications,
they're, they're driven by naive
implementations of the actual working
piece of software. And then
another thing that ends that
really excels at is that
keeping things dry. The one
challenge that we had with
any unit was we would
have common setups that would
exist. And just, just the
structure of how, how an
unit does. So a lot
of people think that they're
doing things right. If they've
set up automated tests, you
know, they they've written their
tests and then they, maybe
they put some continuous integration
together and they think I've
arrived. And then other people
make a real, they make
a differentiation between those writing
automated tests and writing tests
and test driven development. But
they might think that, you
know, that's, that becomes kind
of very woo if you
know what I'm saying, and
it's like, Oh, you know,
test driven development, you know,
that seems like a philosophy
or a religion or a
cult of some kind I've
got tests. I'm fine. And
then BDD seems like kind
of the next logical extension
of test driven development, giving
some more thought to why
you're testing things, but it,
but because it's upstream of
this kind of larger kind
of whoo cult, I think
that sometimes it's not accessible
to the average programmer, Matt.
I mean, do you, do
you follow what I'm saying?
Yeah, I do. I think,
I think what you're getting
at is, is writing your
tests versus hard. And it's
actually impossible if you already
have an existing applications for
which you don't have tests.
Right. A lot of us
are stuck with that in
our day to day coding
lives. So, so it is
really hard to say, you
must always write your test
first. And so, so I,
I definitely I'm aware of
that perception of it being
a sort of a purist
or a, an elitist, whatever
opinion out there Assessable, I
think would be the better
word rather than thinking about
it in terms of a
class, a class system of
elites versus not elites. It's
just, it's not the obvious
kind of like fall into
it. I mean, anyone can
go file new project, but
not anyone could sit down
and write a good test.
I think, I think what
I would say too is
I know both Amir and
I have gotten a lot
of mileage out of, of
doing code kata and hopefully
your listeners are familiar with
that. We can talk about
that more, but I think
it's a valuable way to
take a break from, you
know, the code that you're
stuck with at work and
seeing what really happens when
I write a specification first.
And I think what people
will find is that they
will expect the, their implementation
code to behave better than
it really does. And so
for me, it's been a
real humbling and I guess
an incredibly valuable feedback cycle
to write that test for,
make it, make it pass.
And as Amir mentioned with
a very naive implementation, and
what that forces me to
do is elaborate my specification.
And I've found that, that,
that yield designs that I
wouldn't have come up with
otherwise simple, very elegant designs
in many cases, When you've
brought up this concept of
the kata, which I think
is not everyone I think
is familiar with that. The,
the idea of, of a
kata comes from, from martial
arts. It's a Japanese word
that means form. And these
are the motions that you
see people who are practicing
martial arts, kind of going
through and they'll do these
patterns most often on their
own. And code CADA is
a similar kind of a
thing. You might think, you
know, a martial art, you
might think, you know, a
particular skill, but still you
go through the motions and
the forms and remind yourself
of the fundamentals and code
kata is a really great
way to sit down and
do some focused personal time
to make sure you know,
what you think, you know,
and develop a muscle memory
and familiarize yourself with the
fundamentals. You guys both think
that that's an important thing
for people to do. Absolutely.
I think, and I'm not
a student of martial arts.
And I think that the,
the metaphor breaks down for
one reason, software, you know,
it's, it's meant to be
very malleable and very, you
know, you can put together
the same, same program to
solve a goal, an infinite
number of ways. So that's
one of the really interesting
aspects of doing the same
code kata over and over
again is you'll realize there's
these junctures. If I had
done that a different way,
what would happen? And so
you kind of get to
practice these. If I, if
I implement this requirement before
that requirement, what happens and
new Dane, a lot of
insight into, to building really
simple systems in practice that,
And Amir, have you, have
you found that, that, that
kind of clarity, that one
gets from that kind of
practice goes into your test?
I mean, you really need
to sit down and think
you don't just start slapping
out a BDD type of
a test you, because the
behaviors that you're thinking about
and the goals are driving
the design of the software,
there's a certain amount of
consciousness and awakeness that needs
to be happening when one's
writing tests like this, wouldn't
you say? Yeah, it gets.
And that's what the Cod
has really helped with is
that usually the problems are
really simple. And, you know,
the, the biggest criticism I
get when, when I do
a code caught up with
someone that hasn't done one
before, is that, Oh, this
is so easy. I can
code this out without writing
any tests at all. And
what the code calls have
really helped me do is
keep the, keep the problem
simple and get in, get
that muscle memory in place.
So what happens is that
when I actually have to,
when I go to a
real system and there's really
complex problems to deal with,
I can think back to
my code cottage and say,
well, maybe I should try
the naive implementation. What's the
easiest thing I can do
to get this thing to
work and then build from
there. And that's, that's personally
how it's, how it's helped
me become, become better at
software development. Another thing is
that you get really addicted
to the feedback loop. Anytime
you, you know, you save
a class, you get the
failure, the failure come up
and then you go and
make the test pass. You
get into this rhythm that
gets really addicting. And, and
then when you go back
to your, your everyday code,
you want, you want to
have that rhythm back and
it helps you strive towards
getting, getting your everyday code
to, to fall into that
same, same, I guess Metro,
This episode of Hansel minutes
is brought to you by
careers 2.0 and our friends
at stack overflow careers, 2.0
is the only career site
dedicated to matching graded offers
with great jobs, post your
open depositions on careers to
point out today, reach the
entire development community, all 15 million
monthly visitors on stack overflow.
The best part is you'll
receive exceptional candidates, not just
the massive pile unqualified resumes
you're used to waiting through.
We'll save you tons of
time and headaches and careers.
When you're posting your job,
you can even choose to
receive or candidates careers profile
instead of just their resume,
making your candidates sorting, even
easier. The guys at stack
overflow believe in that product
so much. And if you're
not incredibly happy, they'll refund
your money. No questions asked.
And to top it off
as a handsome minutes listener,
you've been a free stack
overflow. T-shirt when you purchase
a job listing to get
your free, t-shirt use the
code Hansel minutes and check
out careers dot stack overflow.com.
Once again, that URL is
careers dot stack overflow.com. On
that feedback loop that you
bring up is something that
you always hear, people who
are really into, I would
say blank driven development, whether
it be test driven or
behavior driven or demand driven
is this, this loop, this
kind of a zone that
they get into, whether it
be the zone of the
red, green refactor, but there's
actually loops. There's kind of
concentric loops loops within loops.
There's not only the feedback
loop between yourself and the
tests and the acceptance test,
but also the user stories.
Cause I think this is
the thing that we really
need to get down to
here is that it's those
user stories that, that the
nontechnical person understands that is
driving the system. You know,
people are writing software for
business, people who don't write
code and BDD is a
way to take those, those
acceptance tests, those expected behaviors
that the person that's paying
the bills, whether it be
yourself or some suit somewhere
is asking you to implement.
And then there's a feedback
loop with that suit. With
that business person that can
become extremely satisfying as well.
They write the acceptance test,
you turn it into a
specification, you write the code
that satisfies the specification, and
then you come back and
make sure that that works
and then they can change
those stories. Do you, do
you find Matt and your
interactions that, that that's the
case that there's a larger
feedback loop? It's also very
satisfying. I do. I I'm
reminded that we're in an
audio medium. So I dunno
if remembering pictures is a
good thing, but Cory Haines,
once drew that, that concentric
circle that you just talked
about, you know, there's feedback
with just the developer there's
feedback with a QA there's
feedback to a business analyst
level and all the way
back to the user level.
So yeah, I mean, definitely,
definitely on the right track.
Another thing I'll mention is
behavior driven development has been
applied kind of at two
different levels, if you will,
there's the Gherkin or the
given when then versus the
context specification Let's, let's slow
down though and take that
apart. Cause that's, that's a
word that I don't think
everyone who speaks English as
a second language is going
to follow. So you said
Gherkin and then given when
then can take that apart
for me. Well, Amir, Mike
can talk more about that,
but there's several varieties of,
of behavior driven and implementations.
Usually they fall into two
categories, one that emphasizes creating
sentences using a given wind
then structure, which is called
a Gherkin syntax. And then
there's the context specifications side.
So how does that work
as a, given something when
this is this case than
something, something, something, Yeah, it
pretty much, it's really helpful
for a business to maybe
communicate in that, in that
vocabulary for those requirements that
require a request, something that
needs to be disambiguated. So
if there's, if there's something
that's a, there's some requirement
that's fairly complex users have
a tendency, maybe it's just
saying, Oh, it just needs
to work. Just make it
work. And the given when
then some text allows, allows
the developer to maybe communicate
on that level and, and
really, really help them specify
what they, what they really
want the system to do.
And a one, one thing
that's one criticism that I
have with given one Ben,
is that we sometimes maybe
overuse it for things like,
Oh, a registered user should
be able to log in.
There's no reason to go
through the given when then
syntax, you know, the requirements
fairly straightforward. So I don't
think we should, we should
force that kind of grammar
onto, onto our VA counterpart.
If it's not needed contact
back as a it's a
much deeper, is this a
different approach? Maybe, maybe not
can elaborate on context, like
a little bit more. Well,
I think context spec is,
is better for developers trying
to write VDD. I think
Gherkin style BDD implementations give
a lot more prominence to
the sentence, which is good
when you have business people
writing those sentences where context
Beck breaks it down into
simpler terms, really where given
a specific context I specify
this should happen. So it
really, it kind of, it
gives less prominence to the
win and you can kind
of think of given and
then mapping to context and
spec in context spec, your
then might happen in given
or it might happen in
your then it's a little
bit more flexible. Another primary
differentiator I want to talk
about is in context back,
it's real easy to layer
context, and it's just something
you have to be really
careful with because you can
take it too far, but
it's very simple to take
a login context and stage
a stage, a slightly different
response from say an authentication
provider saying that authentication failed.
And then you can have
slight changes in context express
in a very dry, easy
way by nesting those contacts.
So you're, you're saying that,
that the given when then
style and context specification are
two sides of the same
coin. I think so. I
mean, both both came about
in a similar time era,
David Stelz I believe. And
Dan North both, I guess,
sort of agreed to disagree
or go different directions. Sometimes
people have said that Gherkin
style or given when then
is more appropriate for integration
tests. Whereas context spec is
more appropriate for unit tests.
I really think you can
do either either w to
solve either type of a
testing situation. I do think
it's, it's very definitive to
say that Gherkin gets more
prominence to the sentence. There's
no doubt about that. And
Gherkin, you express your spec
as a sentence, whereas in
context spec, you, you express
your spec by declaring contexts
and specifications. Now we, we
do turn those into sentences
that look very similar to
gherkins interphase, but the sentence
itself is not first class.
Okay. Okay. Well, this is
a good opportunity then to
dig a little bit into
end spec itself. This is
a, a library that is
built on top of, Well,
actually that's a common misconception.
What we've actually done is
just taken the assertions from
my unit. We didn't want
to write our own assertions
for, for all this stuff,
but it's a completely separate
engine from unit. Okay. So
you use the assertion library,
but you've pulled that out
and made it, brought it
over into your own world.
So it is, and spec
is on its own. So
I could sit down and
go file new project, say
perhaps use new, get and
say, install, package, and spec.
And I've got everything I
need. I didn't go off
and get 15 different dependencies.
It's pretty self contained. Yep.
That's it. And if you
want another, if you want
to use a different assertion
framework, like should there's really
no problems with that. I
mean, inspect the way it
works is that when an
exception is raised, it's a
failing test. So the assertions
that were part of that
unit raise raises exceptions. And
we didn't want to go
through and try to recreate
or carve those pieces out,
which is why we took
on that dependency. Okay. So
I go on, I write
my first class library or
take, take an application that
I've already got and write
a class that derives from
end and other than deriving
from end spec and using
the end spec library a
mirror, what kind of, how
do I start with my
functions? I mean, if I've
got an idea for us,
for a spec, what is
my function going to look
like? So really that's really
it. If you inherit from
InSpec, you've, you've looked into
the, the inspect runner. So
when you went to advanced
book runner executed, it we'll
find out classes. I didn't
hear from Ann speck. And
usually the way I approach
it as a one thing
is that if you notice
within spec, we don't use
attributes at all, or we
don't use attributes for any
of our testing landmarks. So
the way it works is
usually the way it's start.
My inspect has to keep
it flat. Like I would
work with my end unit
specifications. So I'll do it
underscore, which means it's a
Testament that, or specify underscore,
which means it's a test
method. So any, any method
that starts with it underscore
or specify underscore is considered
a test, Are you saying
it it, so it underscore,
and then on your website,
you've got given underscore and
you've got when underscore, what
are the differences between those?
So we asked that on
a website. So there probably
are, there's really no difference
given his, as we mentioned
earlier, as a keyword in
Durkin given when then to
specify or, or to, to
express this as a context.
And so it's, it's very
natural to, to use given,
to express a context. I
don't know if a mirror
just mentioned, but one of
the important things that you
have to decide pretty early
when you're writing your first
specification is what the name
of the class, the class
itself is sort of a
super level context. So you
might say, I'm going to
describe tic TAC toe and,
and you would use the
underscore notation or convention there,
and that would be your
top level context. So then
when you go into write
a method where you would
actually put a specification, if
you name your method, it
underscores and they are mentioned
that will be interpreted as
a specification itself. So then
somewhere inside that method, you
would, you would have an
assertion. And that would most
closely mimic an in unit
style where I would have
a method with a test
attributes. Okay. So let me
see if I understand this.
So I go and I
say using end spec, I'll
say class, describe underscore tic
TAC, toe derives from and
spec. And then I would
make a method. Maybe I
would say void, how would
I try to explain that
a new game has a
blank board? What I used
to say it underscore new
game has a blank board
Or, or specify underscore. I
usually try to start flat
like I would with any
unit. So I'll start my
specifications, floods, the specify underscore,
and it underscore are considered
some things constructs that performance
options. So my first steps
would be maybe specify underscore
tic TAC toe games starts
with a blank board and
I'll write a very flat,
I'll write a very flat
pest similar to what you
would do in any unit.
Okay. And then, so, so
I've got the class and
I've got the function. What
kind of things would I
want to say within the
function? And what's the syntax
that would use to make
sure that I made a
board and that it was
blank when I made it.
So this goes back to
just a, what would make
a valuable test? I would,
I would probably say you
wouldn't you up a TicTacToe
game and assert that the
board is empty. Now that
would probably be the test
side of it. Right. But
where does end spec come
into? It is from the
perspective of like, why did
I need end spec for
that? You definitely don't Because
what I'm, what I'm trying
to understand is that when
you read about BDD and
you, and you, if you
start, you know, searching around
for it, you can see
there are people who advocate
using frameworks. And then there
are people who advocate using
very basic kind of almost
no op type methods with,
you know, they'll have a
method called when or a
method called specify that doesn't
really do anything, except it
holds onto a string and
provides a little bit of
context. So I'm trying to
understand that without, with a
spec runner and with the
formalization that as something like
an InSpec offers me, some
of it is convention where
I described the class a
certain way and describe the
functions a certain way. And
some of it is value
added by your assertion library
and some of the methods
you have, like it, and,
you know, should not be
and things like that. So
if I'm trying to figure
out how to assert that
this is the case, that
my board is, is empty
and then start building up
a bunch of tests. What
are some main objects that
I would use an inspect
to start building that? And
where does inspects value get,
become more obvious? Okay. So
the biggest value that inspect
provides you would be, have
you ever heard of the,
the concept of one context
per class and then unit?
So the idea there is
that you have in your
setup, you have this context
that you set up and
then the actual test might
this, that you write are
just one liners. You have
one line assertion, right? This
is kind of the idea
of single responsibility principle, except
applied to tests. Your, your
test should have one bit
of context that you should
be testing. And then the
functions all use that context.
And they're careful to not
do anything else. They don't
manipulate it. And they just
assert they assert what that
context does. So the challenge
comes is there's this, there's
this concept that I, that
I've seen is called context
betrayal, where you have that,
you've set up your context
and your setup. You have
a couple of persons that
use that context, and then
you've got this little thing
that DV is just the
tiniest bit, but you don't
want to spend the time
to make another class. So
you'll betray that you'll betray
that context. You'll maybe do
a little bit more interaction
there and then write an
assertion right afterwards. So the
context trail, you know, it
happens with the venue because
you're, you have that flat
hierarchy and what ends that
gives you, the dude gives
you the ability to do
is nastier context. So instead
of having to pay the
tax to create another class,
or do some inheritance hierarchy,
you can use Lambda expressions
directly inside of a method
to elaborate on the context
and it keeps your touch
and you don't have to
pay that. You don't have
to pay the expense of
actually having to create another
class. Ah, okay. And so
you, now here we've come
full circle because we were
talking about this earlier. When
I asked the question about
when I'm creating a unit
test, sometimes I find that
I want to nest test
within tests and things become
a little bit more complicated,
but in fact, systems are
complicated and specifications having a
hierarchy makes sense. So you're
saying that, and of course,
what I assume when I
run this and the spec
runner, I'm going to get
a nice, a hierarchical list
of the things that run
with context being expressed by
via an indentation level. Yes.
And there are lots of
examples on the website that
show that, that context and
the output when you run
the spec. Yeah. Is there
a particular kind of a
BDD Bible or a book
that one should read? I
mean, we can pick our
tools, but is there a
particular place that I should
go that is considered the
best place to get my
head around? How to think
about this kind of testing?
I think, I don't know
if there's any definitive resource
I wish there was. I
think if you do some
Googling and you look at
Dan North's original article and
leave it, his name is
pronounced David Kamenski. I think
it's David cells that sort
of imagined our stack and
Dave who implemented a lot
of it. If you go
read the introductory blog posts
for our spec, you can,
he actually walks you through
writing effect. And those are
two really good resources I'm
here. Do you think that
the Dan Norris introducing BDD
article from back in 2006
is a good place to
start? Yeah, I think there's
a really helpful, and there's
actually a couple of key
points that I probably would
want to go over and
just having these key points,
it helps a BDD click
on what it's trying to
do. So let's think about,
I hate using this class,
but let's think about a
car. Okay. When I re
when you write a unit,
when you write a test
against the car, we might,
a non BDD test would
be a car, has four
wheels. It's a very simple
test. Well, we can rewrite
the assertion on. Then you
have the car verified that
the count for the wheels
is four, right? So the,
the flight change behavior driven
development makes is you don't
test structure. You don't test
whether the car has four
wheels. You test what would
happen? Why, why does the
car need wheels? So maybe
the test actually needs to
be when driving a car.
It, it says that it's
drivable if it has what
wheels. So I imply structure
as opposed to testing the
structure directly. So these are
the, those are just the
subtle things about behavior and
development that, that, you know,
it's tricky. And I, I
want to point out, I
think this is a, this
was a big insight for
me to, you know, not
specifying structure or, or not
specifying just structure, but always
specifying some element of behavior
and then letting the structure
sort of be implied. What,
what I just thought of
is back to our TicTacToe
example, if you'll remember, I
think the specification we discussed
was pretty much structure only.
So another, another good specification
to maybe start with that's
a better approach from a
behavioral perspective is to players
take turns or players take
turns. So that would introduce
the concept of players and
the turn and the fact
that it alternated, or maybe
another test and maybe a
fairly easy test would be
a board that is completely
full, is considered. The game
is concerned ended when the
game is won, the board
is full, right? So you
can imply that it has
nine squares by, by, by
verifying that the game is
complete. Yeah. And that, I
think that's a really good
place to, to end it,
because I think that if
you can find that language
that clicks for you, that's
where BDD starts to make
more sense. I mean, like
that the example you just
gave there, given that the
board is full, you know,
when there are no moves
left, then the game is
over there. This is the
initial context and event has
occurred. And then there are
some, some outcome, and even
the simple idea of having
expressive methods and expressive classes
and start building a sentence
makes you realize that writing
tests about things like the
board has nine little details,
like kind of like the
board has nine squares. And
if the squares length that,
you know, that that's almost
like not seeing the forest
for the trees. And it
seems like BDD really is
about focusing on the forest,
Right? So people can check
out and spec@inspect.org and we'll
put up links to some
of the different articles that
we've talked about and people
can download that and check
it out. Thanks a lot,
guys. I appreciate you talking
to me today. Thanks. Thanks
for having us. It's been
fun. This has been another
episode of Hansel minutes. We'll
see you again next week.